
# ChatGPTFirewall


ChatGPTFirewall is a web-based application that allows users to interact with their data through a conversational interface. This project leverages the power of vector databases and large language models to enable users to upload files, ask questions in natural language, and receive contextual answers.


## How It Works

ChatGPTFirewall provides a secure platform for users to upload text documents and query them using natural language. The application processes these documents, converting them into vectorized forms that are stored and indexed. Users can then interact with the data, ask questions, and receive relevant responses that are generated by the system's integrated language model.


## Quickstart

Get started with ChatGPTFirewall quickly by accessing the following resources:

- **Try the Application**: Jump straight into the action and experience ChatGPTFirewall firsthand by visiting our [application](https://chatgpt.enclaive.io/). Here, you can interact with your data through our conversational interface.

- **Explore the Landing Page**: Learn more about what ChatGPTFirewall has to offer on our [Landing Page](https://chatgptfirewall.github.io/ChatGPTfirewall/). Discover the features and the technology behind our secure data interaction platform.

- **Read the Documentation**: For a comprehensive guide on how to use ChatGPTFirewall, including setup, features, and tips, check out our [Documentation](https://chatgptfirewall.gitbook.io/chatgptfirewall/).

These links provide everything you need to start using ChatGPTFirewall and make the most out of your data.

## Installation

Setting up ChatGPTFirewall is straightforward, whether you're looking to deploy it for personal use or within an organizational environment. This section provides a comprehensive guide to get ChatGPTFirewall up and running on your system. From cloning the repository to configuring your environment, follow these steps to begin interacting with your data through our secure, conversational interface. Let's embark on the journey to streamline your data interaction experience with ChatGPTFirewall.

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have met the following requirements:
- Docker and Docker Compose are installed on your machine.
- You have an OpenAI API key if you wish to use the ChatGPT response features.

### Installation

Follow these steps to install and run ChatGPTFirewall:

1. **Clone this repository:**
   ##### SSH
   ```sh
   git clone git@github.com:ChatGPTfirewall/ChatGPTfirewall.git
   ```
   ##### HTTPS
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/ChatGPTfirewall/ChatGPTfirewall.git
   ```

2. **Navigate to the project directory:**
   ```sh
   cd ChatGPTfirewall
   ```

3. **Configure Auth0 Settings:**
   Create a single page application, a custom API, and a machine-to-machine application in your Auth0 tenant. You will need the domain and audience from these settings for the next steps.

4. **Create and configure the `.env` file:**
   ```sh
   cp .env.example .env
   ```
   Edit the `.env` file and adjust the variables to your needs. Set the `OPEN_AI_KEY` with your OpenAI API key to enable ChatGPT responses. Define the `VITE_*` environment variables according to your setup. For Auth0 configuration, set `JWT_AUDIENCE` to the identifier of your Auth0 API and `JWT_ISSUER` to your Auth0 domain, both of which can be found in your Auth0 dashboard.

5. **Build and start the application:**
   ```sh
   docker compose up --build
   ```
   The application should now be running at [http://localhost:5173/](http://localhost:5173/).

### Configuration

Enter the backend container and navigate to the required folder to execute backend-related commands:

```sh
docker exec -it backend /bin/bash
cd /chat_with_your_data
```

Here are some useful commands you can run:

- Autogenerate database migrations:
  ```sh
  python manage.py makemigrations
  ```
- Apply migrations to the database:
  ```sh
  python manage.py migrate
  ```
- Manage demo users:
  ```sh
  python manage.py create_demo_users
  python manage.py delete_demo_users
  ```

### Deployment
For this to work it's assumed you're connected to a ubuntu machine via ssh using root and you're in the root directory.

#### 1.Check and Update
##### 1.1 Confirm wether port 80 is open or not:
```sh
sudo python3 -m http.server 80
```
(then try to connect to it using a browser and http (not https))

##### 1.2 Update system:
```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

#### 2.Key Auth (optional)
##### 2.1 Create key file:
```sh
mkdir -p ~/.ssh
touch ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
chmod 700 ~/.ssh
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

##### 2.2 Transfer key:
```sh
nano ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```
(then use paste to transfer the key - it should be the .pub key)

##### 2.3 Change config:
```sh
nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```
(change PubkeyAuthentication to yes)

#### 3.Setup Docker
##### 3.1 Install docker:
Follow the [Official Instructions](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)

##### 3.2 Create and transfer docker compose
```sh
nano docker-compose.yml
```
(then paste the contents of the docker-compose-prod.yml into it)

#### 4.Setup Certbot
##### 4.1 Install Certbot:
```sh
apt install certbot python3-certbot-nginx
```
##### 4.2 Run certbot:
```sh
certbot --nginx
```
for the nginx setup or
```sh
certbot certonly --standalone
```
if you want to run it without having the nginx service started
(then follow the on screen instructions from certbot)
if completed it should show something like:
Certificate is saved at: /etc/letsencrypt/live/<yourdomain.com>/fullchain.pem
Key is saved at:         /etc/letsencrypt/live/<yourdomain.com>/privkey.pem

##### 4.3 Create dir and mount key:
```sh
mkdir -p /home/deploy/letsencrypt/ssl
ln -s /etc/letsencrypt/live/<yourdomain.com>/fullchain.pem /home/deploy/letsencrypt/ssl/fullchain.pem
ln -s /etc/letsencrypt/live/<yourdomain.com>/privkey.pem /home/deploy/letsencrypt/ssl/privkey.pem
```
